@chapter Extensions to maxima
wxMaxima aims to be but a graphical user interface for maxima. In some
cases it adds functionality to Maxima, though. These cases are
described here:
@section Plotting
@subsection Embedding a plot into the work sheet
Maxima normally instructs the external program gnuplot to open a
separate window for every diagram it creates. Since many times it is
convenient to embed graphs into the work sheet instead wxMaxima
provides its own set of plot functions that don't differ from the
corresponding maxima functions save in their name: They are all
prepended by a ``wx''. For example  @command{wxplot} corresponds to
@command{plot}, @command{wxdraw} corresponds to @command{draw} and
@command{wxhistogram} corresponds to @command{histogram}.
@subsection Making embedded plots bigger or smaller
The plotting routines of wxMaxima respect the variable
@var{wxplot_size} that specifies the size of a plot in pixels.
@example
%i1 wxplot_size:[1200,800];
%o1 [1200,800];

%i2 wxdraw2d(
        explicit(
            sin(x),
            x,1,10
        )
    );
@end example
@subsection Better quality plots
Gnuplot doesn't seem to provide a portable way of determining is it
supports the high-quality bitmap output the cairo library provides.
On systems where it supports these the option @var{wxplot_pngcairo}
enables support for antialiasing an additional line styles.
@subsection Embedding animations into the spreadsheet
The @code{with_slider_draw} command is a version of @code{wxdraw2d}
that does prepare multiple plots and allows to switch between them
by moving the slider on top of the screen. If ImageMagick is installed
wxMaxima even allows to export this animation as an animated gif.

The first two arguments for @code{with_slider_draw} are the name of
the variable that is stepped between the plots and a list of the
values of these variable. The arguments that follow are the ordinary
arguments for @code{wxdraw2d}:
@example
with_slider_draw(
    f,[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,10],
    title=concat("f=",f,"Hz"),
    explicit(
        sin(2*%pi*f*x),
        x,0,1
    ),grid=true
);
@end example
@section wxmaximarc
@cindex Startup File
If the maxima user directory there is a text file named @file{wxmaxima-init.mac}
the contents of the file is passed to maxima automatically every time
a new worksheet has been started.

To find out which directory maxima uses as the user directory just
type in the following lines:
@example
%i1 maxima_userdir;
%o1 /home/username/.maxima
@end example
