@chapter Troubleshooting
@section Cannot connect to Maxima
Since maxima (the program that does the actual mathematics) and
wxMaxima (providing the easy-to-use user interface) are separate
programs that communicate by the means of a local network connection
the most probably case is that this connection is somehow not
working. For example a firewall could be set up in a way that it
doesn't only prevent against unauthorized connections from the
internet and to the internet but also inter-process-communication
inside the same computer. On Un*x computers another possible reason
would be that the loopback network that provides network connections
between two programs in the same computer isn't properly configured.
@section How to save data from a broken .wxmx file
Internally most modern xml-based formats are ordinary zip-files with
one speciality: the first file in the archive is stored uncompressed
and provides information about what type of program can open this
file. If the zip signature at the end of the file is still intact
after renaming a broken .wxmx file to .zip most operating systems will
provide a way to extract any portion of information that is stored
inside it.
@section wxMaxima waits forever for data from maxima
This might be caused by the fact that a closing brace, bracket,
parenthesis or hyphenation mark is missing: In this case maxima waits
until it gets the rest of its input. If that isn't the case the
operating system normally provides a way to see, if maxima is really
working forever trying to solve the current problem.
@section I lost a cell contents and undo doesn't remember
If you still have a way to find out what label maxima has assigned
to the cell just type in the cell's label and it's contents will
reappear. If you don't: Don't panic. Maxima contains a replay feature:
@example
%i1 playback();
@end example

